So welcome back, guys.
Now, next, we will going to discuss in detail the mechanism behind procedure, call and return.
So let us understand that whole function call is implemented in Linux operating system using STAC memory
concepts.
So the goal of the section is to understand in detail at a lower level that how the following three.
So the first goal is that when a caller makes a call to the calling function call, it should start
execute from the beginning when Callie finishes or returns caller resume's from the point where it left.
And if there is any written value by the COLLY, then that return value should be available to the caller.
So we will going to see how we implement these three concepts.
So now you can understand that the entire mechanism of function call is implemented using static memory.
So let us understand at a very low level to achieve the above stated goals.
And of course, I am not talking about any rocket science.
All these fundamentals are there in your undergraduate curriculum.
So be ready to be asked question on this in your interviews or otherwise.
So let us get familiar ourselves with some terminologies.
So call the stack is a collection of stack frames.
Each function when called in a program, create a new stack frame in the stack, memory a frame that
is executed as always, the topmost frame of the stack.
So here the top of the stack lies in fact at the bottom of the stack.
So pointer to the topmost frame in the stack is called the frame pointer, or it is also called as base
pointer pointer to the top of the stack is called stack pointer.
So note that here is a difference pointer to the top of the stack is the stack pointer, whereas pointer
to the topmost frame in the stack is called frame pointer.
So in other words, stack point to point to the end of the topmost frame in the stack.
Now let us see in depth how function call happens, how values are returned from the Collee, and how
Korla resume its execution when the call returns program counter.
That is peezy is a pointer which always points to the current instruction which is being executed.
And this program counter is also called the instruction pointer.
In some text, they say that the program counter is a pointer which points to the next instruction that
is executed.
So now this is something that is implementation dependent.
But in either case, the end goal of the program counter is same.
That is to keep a track of the instruction that is currently in execution.
We understand already that stack memory is managed by data structure called stack on was two basic operations
are supported.
That is Bush and Pop.
We use push whenever we need to store new data into the stack memory.
We always increment the stack pointer after the Bush operation and we use pop operation whenever we
need to remove the data from top of the stack memory.
Right.
And we decrement the stack pointer after the pop operation.
So her element means that the stack pointer will further shift upwards in the stack memory towards higher
address.
And here increment the stack pointer means that the stack pointer will shift further downwards in the
stack memory.
So here the operation increment and decrement essentially means opposite with respect to the change
in the value of the stack pointer that this operation does.
So now let us divide our discussion into two parts.
The first, we will going to discuss that whole process.
A call is made.
So a call means that the column function invokes the calling function and the control transfers to the
function for execution.
Then the second is the procedure done.
That is when the function returns are terminated, then the controller then backs to the caller and
resumes from the same point where the caller invoked the calling function.
We will see the mechanism behind each of the above two scenarios in detail, so let's gather some more
basics first.